As one would assume, the primary task of the software lead is to organize software members and write the code that the robot uses. However, the role encompasses a lot more than just writing scripts. These additional roles include managing and tuning the cameras on the robot (also the devices that process them) and overseeing and programming the radio (with electrical), and working with other subteams to test mechanisms so that they can go make mechanical improvements. The software lead  holds much more responsibility than most subteam members: they are expected to write more code, be more knowledgeable, and be more involved. At competitions, the software lead also holds more responsibility. They are expected to, identify an issue, find the cause, and create solutions, all on a time crunch. This involves communication during high pressure scenarios, which can often not be a time where everybody is at their best. The lead needs to accurately communicate without criticizing in order to find solutions, which can be hard. During my time in the pits this season, there were many quick fixes that had to be made, and communication between leads was often the most crucial component when a fix was made. During builds, the software lead is expected to communicate with the team as a whole to update them on where the robot is in terms of software. This will ensure that everybody is up to date, and that no lack of information causes slowdowns in the robots progression. They are also expected to communicate with design, mechanical, and electrical members to create code that works best for that years robot specifically, sometimes even before the robot is built. The lead is also expected to run a successful subteam and create an enjoyable and educational environment for the subteam members. In an ideal world, the lead will teach members the roles that the subteam is expected to perform, including introducing new, complex information to them in a comprehensive manner. Furthermore, the lead is expected to divide up the subteam's work and make sure that every member has a task that will not only advance their traning, but also make them feel included in the team as a whole. The lead should keep the entire subteam up to date on the status of the software and related things. 
